# Description
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics 
team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
This app would help load the data in star schema, for better understanding what songs users are listening to.

#Dataset 
#Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. 

#Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

# Schema Design

## Fact table
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

## Dimensions table
users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


# List of scripts

sql_queries.py - includes (CRUD) queries
create_tables.py - Resets the database by dropping and recreating the tables
etl.py - loads the json files for songs and logs dataset from the data folder on the db in star schema structure


# Steps to Run

In the project directory, execute:
1. python create_tables.py
2. python etl.py